[THEME MUSIC]
>> If you really want to get
high, try living in truth,
it's very scary.
Living in truth does not mean
telling everybody everything
that you think because
most people don't
want to know the truth.
But it does mean being
truthful with yourself
and it means that you
are available to be
truthful with other
people if they
are willing to share truth.
I often sit with
people and the game
is a very scary and fierce one.
You can feel what it feels like
I just mentioned; some of you
have even played it with me.
The question is asked, we
look into each other's eyes,
we look at the point
between the eyes
and the question is to
ask if there is anything
that you can bring to mind
that would be difficult,
embarrassing, or uncomfortable
to share with me about yourself
or about me, share it.
And immediately into your mind
comes all kinds of things,
immediately things you've
never thought about,
they're not even your thoughts.
They just pour into your
mind and you think, oh, I
can't tell them that.
And you start to say now, I'm
going to tell you this thing
but it's really not my thought.
I don't know where it came from.
Now then, you cut
out all the crap
and you just trust each
other and here we are.
Because you see, the
thing that keeps us apart
are the thoughts that
you and I have which
when you think them
push another person away
because they make the
other person him or her
rather than us.
I want to live in a world of us.
Because I want to
live in a world of us,
I can't really
afford any secrets.
Because all my secrets
keep people away
so I publish all my
secrets because I just
realized that it's just much
more free to just let it
all hang out.
And then you can look
at everybody as us.
It's very scary
but very exciting.
And truth indeed
does get you high,
but it's a delicate contrast.
I had a couple come to
me several months ago
and they were thinking
of getting married.
And I said to
them, well, I think
if you're going to
get married and you
want me to have
anything to do with it,
it ought to be done in truth.
And they said, oh yes,
we want it done in truth.
I said, well, I
mean really truth.
Oh yes, everything's fine.
She was the most vocal about it.
So I said all right just
face each other look
in each other's eyes.
And I said, OK now,
if there is anything
that you can bring
to mind that would
be difficult or embarrassing
or uncomfortable to share,
share it.
And he says to her,
well, I have to tell you
that right after we
started going together,
I was with Kathy and
she said, you what?
And she turned into
this totally betrayed,
hurt, angry human being.
And she just lashed,
you betrayed this trust.
All the time you were with
me and you didn't-- he said,
I wanted to but I was afraid to.
She says, I don't see how
I can be with you anymore.
Well, I said, OK, you have
a choice at this point.
He's playing to live in truth.
And after about 20 minutes,
her body, which was tense
started to loosen and loosen
and loosen, and she let it go.
And finally, after about a
half hour, I could say, right,
and here we are.
Now, if there is
anything you can
bring to mind that would be
difficult, embarrassing--
and we just kept doing
it until finally, they
were really straight
and you could imagine
that a whole year, they had been
going with him knowing that he
had that thing in him
that she couldn't know,
and her saying when
she came to me,
I'm thinking we should get
married, we want to get married
but I don't know.
I'm a little afraid of it.
What is she afraid of?
What is she picking up?
She's picking up that
tension that exists.
And the reason he can't
tell her is because he's
afraid of just what happened.
And it's a conspiracy
of concealment
that keeps them both distanced
in a way that ends up
with a marriage that's OK but
it sure isn't living spirit.
And I don't know
about you, but I would
like to live in the spirit.
Because it's a little
bit like playing tennis.
You meet on a tennis court
and you are competing.
But you collaborated to meet
on the tennis court to compete.
So there's really two
planes of reality.
There's the plane in
which you're collaborators
and there's the plane in
which you're competitors.
So there is the
plane in which you
are two separate people full of
lust, greed, hatred, ill-will,
sloth, and doubt.
And then there is
the other plane
in which you are awareness.
And when the eyes meet,
the eyes meet as awareness.
That's why the eyes are called
the windows of the soul.
And if you can sit
down with anybody else
and sit eye to eye, not social
hello in there, I'm here.
Not that.
That's why I talk about focusing
on the point between the eyes.
It's a meditative space but
it's a clear connection.
And then out of here,
run all the stuff.
And then each stuff will have
all the reactions in people,
let them run through, and
then very quietly you'll
come back to hear.
Try living in truth.